**==> picture [240 x 91] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
HOW TO WIN AGES<br>2-5<br>BE THE FIRST PLAYER TO COLLECT 3 FULL   8 [+] PLAYERS<br>PROPERTY SETS OF DIFFERENT COLORS.<br>WHAT THE GAME’S ABOUT<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


**==> picture [36 x 209] intentionally omitted <==**

- Monopoly Deal is all about collecting properties and stealing from your opponents! Use Action cards to charge rent, swap cards, demand birthday money and lots more. Make sure you put lots of money into your personal bank – and remember other players will steal from you too! **SET UP** 

- 1. Remove the 4 Quick Start Rules cards from the pack and hand them out for reference. 

- 2. Shuffle the rest of the cards together and deal 5 to each player, face down. 3. Look at your cards, but keep them a secret! 4. Put the remaining cards face down in the center to create the draw pile. 5. Decide who goes first. Play continues clockwise. 

## ~~**ON YOUR TURN**~~ 

**==> picture [310 x 447] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
1. TAKE 2 CARDS<br>from the draw pile and add them to your hand. Later in the game if you have no<br>cards left, pick up 5 instead.<br>2. PLAY UP TO 3 CARDS<br>from your hand, onto the table in front of you. You don’t have to play any cards if you<br>don’t want to. Play your 3 cards in any combination of the following: A, B and/or C,<br>in any order (see  WHAT THE GAME LOOKS LIKE , below).<br> A PUT MONEY/ACTION CARDS INTO YOUR OWN BANK<br>Players can charge each other for rent, birthdays etc. Build up a ‘Bank’ pile in<br>front of you, using Money cards and/or Action cards.<br>u If you put an Action card into your Bank, it becomes redundant as an Action card<br>for the rest of the game. If you use it to pay another player, it must go straight into<br>their bank and cannot be used for its Action.<br>AND/OR<br>B PUT DOWN PROPERTIES INTO YOUR OWN COLLECTION<br> REMEMBER, 3 DIFFERENT-COLORED PROPERTY SETS WIN THE GAME!<br>u Lay Property cards down in front of you to build up your Property sets.<br>u Each card shows how many properties there are to collect in that color-set.<br>u Collect as many properties as you want, but you need 3 full sets (of different<br>colors) to win the game.<br>u You can only reorganize your property collection on your turn. If you realize<br>you’ve won during someone else’s turn, you must wait until it’s your turn to say it!<br>AND/OR<br>C PLAY ACTION CARDS INTO THE CENTER<br> FOLLOW THE INSTRUCTIONS ON THE ACTION CARDS!<br>u Action cards allow you to do things such as charge other players rent, steal their<br>cards and demand money for your birthday!<br>u If you pick up an Action card on your turn, you can play it right away as one of<br>your three cards or use it on a later turn.<br>u Action cards can also be put into your bank as money. The value is shown in the<br>corner, in a red ring.<br>(See THE CARDS IN MORE DETAIL for more info).<br>IMPORTANT! HOW TO PAY OTHER PLAYERS<br>u Cards can NEVER go back into a player’s hand.<br>u NEVER pay with cards from your hand, only from the cards in front of you.<br>u You can pay with cards from your bank, properties or a combination of both.<br>You choose how you want to pay – not the player you’re paying!<br>u Change is not given! For example, if a player charges you a2m rent and you only<br>have a a3m card in your bank, you don’t get change. Too Bad!<br>u If you pay with property cards, they must go into the other player’s property collection.<br>u If you have no cards in front of you to pay with, you don’t pay at all!<br>3. END YOUR TURN<br>If you have more than 7 cards in your hand at the end of your turn (not including<br>cards on the table) discard extras to the bottom of the draw pile so you only have 7.<br>If you’ve run out of cards, take 5 at the start of your next turn.<br>Play into center to use.<br> .....................<br> ..                  ..<br>1<br>2 bb8M3M<br>Draw 2 extra cards.<br>RENT<br>© 1935, 2008 HASBRO.<br>© 1935, 2008 HASBRO.<br>© 1935, 2008 HASBRO.<br>b4M<br>PASS<br>ACTION CARD<br>BOARDWALK<br>FULL SET<br> (No. of propertiesowned in set)<br>b<br>M1<br>M1b<br>M1b<br>M1b<br>M1b<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


**==> picture [283 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
START PLAYING AND IT’LL ALL BECOME CLEAR!<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


## **WHAT THE GAME LOOKS LIKE** 

**==> picture [286 x 165] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
DRAW PILE PLAY PILE<br>Play your Action cards<br>Your opponent’s money  face-up here.<br>and property piles.<br>YOUR<br>BANK PILE<br>YOUR PROPERTY SETS<br>Lay these out in front of you.<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


## **THE WINNER** 

**TO WIN, BE THE FIRST PLAYER TO COLLECT 3 FULL PROPERTY SETS OF DIFFERENT COLORS.** 

**==> picture [284 x 156] intentionally omitted <==**

## ~~**THE CARDS IN MORE DETAIL**~~ 

**==> picture [287 x 684] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
Sly Deal:  Forced Deal:<br>ACTION CARD Steal a property from any   ACTION CARD Swap another player’s<br>other player and add it to your  property card with one from<br>DEALSLY property collection. You cannot  FORCEDDEAL your property collection. Can<br>(Cannot be part of a full set.)the player of your choice.Play into center to use.Steal a property from steal a card from a full set of properties. Can also be   (Cannot be part of a full set.)with another player.Swap any propertyPlay into center to use. also be banked as money.<br>© 1935, 2008 HASBRO. banked as money. © 1935, 2008 HASBRO.<br>Deal Breaker:  Just Say No:<br>ACTION CARD Steal a full set of properties  ACTION CARD Use this card at any time to<br>from any other player and add it  cancel the effect when another<br>DEAL JUST<br>BREAKER to your property collection.  SAY NO! player plays any Action card<br>properties from any player.Play into center to use.(Includes any buildings.)Steal a complete set of  Brutal! Can also be banked  as money. Use any time when an action card is played against you.Play into center to use. against you. If that player has another Just Say No card, they<br>© 1935, 2008 HASBRO. © 1935, 2008 HASBRO. can use it to cancel yours… sorry!<br>Debt Collector:  Can also be banked as money.<br>ACTION CARD Use this card to demand a5m ACTION CARD It’s My Birthday:<br>COLLECTORDEBT from one other player! Can also be banked as money. BIRTHDAYIT’S MY All players pay you Happy Birthday! Can also be a2m.<br>banked as money.<br>Play into center to use.Force any playerto pay you a5M. Play into center to use.All players give youa2M as a “gift”.<br>© 1935, 2008 HASBRO. © 1935, 2008 HASBRO.<br>Rent:  Multi-colored Rent card:<br>ACTION CARD Charge other players rent on  ACTION CARD Charge one player of your<br>your property/properties that  choice rent on any of your<br>RENT match the color of the Rent  RENT properties. Can also be<br>All players pay you rentin one of these colours.for properties you ownPlay into center to use. card. Can also be banked  as money. you rent for properties youown in one of these colors.Force one player to payPlay into center to use. banked as money.<br>© 1935, 2008 HASBRO. © 1935, 2008 HASBRO.<br>Double the Rent:  Pass Go:<br>ACTION CARD Play with a standard Rent card  ACTION CARD Pick up 2 extra cards from the<br>to double the amount. Can also  PASS draw pile. You can play more<br>DOUBLE<br>THE RENT! be banked as money. than one Pass Go card per turn.<br>Needs to be playedPlay into center to use.with a rent card. Draw 2 extra cards.Play into center to use. Can also be banked as money.<br>© 1935, 2008 HASBRO. © 1935, 2008 HASBRO.<br>ACTION CARD House/Hotel: Add these cards onto a full set  b4M WILD CARD (Use card either way up.) PROPERTY Property Wildcards: u  Use Property Wildcards as<br>RENT<br>of properties to add to the   1  .....................b2M substitutes for property cards<br>a(Except stations and utilities.)set you own to add 3Add onto any full HOUSE M to the rent value. rent value.u  You can only have one house and one hotel on any set.  23  ..                  .. [ .....................] FULL SET bb74MM u  You can swap these around of one of the colors shown on the card.<br>© 1935, 2008 HASBRO. u  You can only add a hotel to  © 1935, 2008 HASBRO. amongst different sets on<br>a property set after you’ve  PROPERTY WILD CARD your turn.<br>ACTION CARD added a house.  u  There are 2 multi-colored<br>u  You cannot add houses or  Property Wildcards which<br>a(Except stations and utilities.)set you own to add 4Add onto any full HOTEL M© 1935, 2008 HASBRO. to the rent value. Can also be banked as money.hotels onto the Railroads or Utilities sets. of any property set. This cardThis card can be used as parthas no monetary value.© 1935, 2008 HASBRO. can be used as properties of any color. These have no monetary value and cannot be used to pay with.<br>Money cards: Put money cards into your  b4M BOARDWALK Property cards: Each card shows how many<br>bank pile and use them to   (No. of propertiesowned in set) RENT properties you need of that<br>pay other players. 1  .....................b3M color to complete a FULL SET.<br>2  ..                  .. FULL SET b8M This applies to railroads and<br>utilities too.<br>© 1935, 2008 HASBRO. © 1935, 2008 HASBRO.<br>6 OR MORE PLAYERS<br>To play with 6 or more players, shuffle two packs together and play as normal! If you need to<br>separate the packs later, use this list to check the contents of one pack:<br>110 playing cards, including:<br>u 4 rules cards u 28 Property cards: 2 Brown, 3 Light Blue, 3 Pink, 3 Orange, 3 Red, 3 Yellow, 3 Green,<br>2 Blue, 4 Railroads, 2 Utilities. u 11 Property Wildcards: 1 Light Blue/Brown, 1 Light Blue/Railroad, 2 Pink/<br>Orange, 2 Red/Yellow, 1 Dark Blue/Green, 1 Green/Railroad, 1 Railroad/Utility, 2 multi-colored Property<br>Wildcards. u 34 Action Cards: 2 x Deal Breakers, 3 x Forced Deal, 3 x Sly Deal, 3 x Just Say No, 3 x Debt<br>Collectors, 3 x It’s My Birthday, 2 x Double the Rent, 3 x Houses, 2 x Hotels, 10 x Pass Go. u 13 Rent cards:<br>2 Light Blue/Brown, 2 Pink/Orange, 2 Red/Yellow, 2 Dark Blue/Green, 2 Railroad/Utility, 3 Any Rent.<br>u 20 Money Cards: 6 x a1m, 5 x a2m, 3 x a3m, 3 x a4m, 2 x a5m, 1 x a10m.<br>We will be happy to hear your questions or comments about this game. US consumers please write to: Hasbro Games,<br>Consumer Affairs Dept., P.O. Box 200, Pawtucket, RI 02862. Tel: 888-836-7025 (toll free). Canadian consumers please<br>write to: Hasbro Canada Corporation, 2350 de la Province, Longueuil, QC Canada, J4G 1G2.<br>The HASBRO, PARKER BROTHERS and<br>MONOPOLY names and logos, as well as the<br>® distinctive design of the gameboard, the four corner squares, the MR. MONOPOLY name and<br>character, and each of the distinctive elements of<br>01723 the board and playing pieces are trademarks of<br>® Hasbro for its property trading game and game<br>equipment. ©1935,2008 Hasbro, Pawtucket, RI<br>monopoly.com DEAL 02862. All Rights Reserved. TM and ® denote U.S.<br>Trademarks.01723-I<br>3bM 3bM<br>3bM 3bM<br>5bM 4bM<br>5bM 4bM<br>3bM bM2<br>3bM bM2<br>1bM 3bM<br>1bM 3bM<br>1bM 1bM<br>1bM 1bM<br>3bM<br>3bM<br>4bM<br>4bM<br>1bM<br>b<br>1M<br>1bM<br>M8b  ..                  .. FULL SET 2<br>M3b  ..................... 1<br>RENT<br>WILD CARD (Use card either way up.) PROPERTY M4b<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


